h1. Paging Keys (js)

h2. About

Javascript keyboard short cutting for page navigation e.g. through listings. 

Both scrolling to articles on the current page and paginating through mutliple pages.  Inspired by the interaction on "FFFFOUND!":http://ffffound.com.  The example operates on "micro-formatted":http://microformats.org/ html ( "hAtom":http://microformats.org/wiki/hatom ).  The script uses the "prototype":http://www.prototypejs.org/ js library and includes code for  "hotkey.js":http://la.ma.la/blog/diary_200511041713.htm key hooks. Take a look at "this video explanation":http://www.37signals.com/svn/posts/1409-heres-a-demo-of-some-thoughtful-ui-on-ffffoundcom from "Ryan Singer":http://twitter.com/rjs of "37 Signals":http://www.37signals.com

h2. Caveats

Ongoing issues with this script include;

* paging_keys_js should be re-written to be a self contained class
* more testing on different browsers and to get more coverage

h2. Setup / Using

h3. Requirements

What do you need?

* "prototype":http://www.prototypejs.org/ js library (>= 1.6.0.3)
* a working keyboard
* a decent web browser

h3. Using

In the example, make your browser height small enough to have vertical scrolling, then use j/k to move up/down through listing (and across pagination)  You can also use h/l to move between pages. So;

* h previous page
* j previous item
* k next item
* l next page

The example has 4 pages in it. You can use the above keys to move backwards and forwards through the posts.

h2. Example Configuration Explanation 

A "micro-formatted":http://microformats.org/ ( "hAtom":http://microformats.org/wiki/hatom ) blog page with pagination html from "will_paginate":http://wiki.github.com/mislav/will_paginate )  The example uses the #bottom anchor link on the last post of each page, so paging backwards will start at the bottom and work its way up through the page.

Have a look at the example.html documents and the tests.

h2. Get out clause

This script is provided without warranty, support, or a call center in some far away land. If using this script causes the world to stop rotating, and you get transported _back_ to the Island, it's your own fault.

h2. Credits

Who's who?

* Authored by "Matthew Hutchinson":http://matthewhutchinson.net
* Inspired by "FFFFOUND!":http://ffffound.com/ keyboard naviagtion
* Explained by "Ryan Singer, 37 Signals":http://www.37signals.com/svn/posts/1409-heres-a-demo-of-some-thoughtful-ui-on-ffffoundcom
* Includes "hotkey.js":http://la.ma.la/blog/diary_200511041713.htm
